So now let's talk
about Lambda concurrency and throttling.
So the more we invoke our Lambda functions,
the more we will have concurrent executions
of our Lambda functions.
We know this because Lambda can scale
very, very easily and fast.
So that means that's if we invoke our Lambda function
at a low scale, we may have two concurrent executions
of our Lambda functions.
But if we have a very high scale of events happening,
we may have up to 1000 concurrence of Lambda functions
working together to process whatever comes through.
So something can do though is to limit the number
of concurrent execution a Lambda function can do,
and that is recommended.
So for this, we can set what's called a reserved concurrency
and that is set at the function level.
So this is a limit, and we're saying,
"Okay, this Lambda function can only have
"up to 50 concurrent executions."
So each invocation over the concurrency limits
will trigger what's called a throttle.
And there are different behaviors with a throttle
if it's a synchronous invocation.
So we invoke our Lambda functions directly
and we're being throttled,
it will return a throttle error, 429.
And if it's an asynchronous invocation,
it will retry automatically and then go to the DLQ.
So in case you need a higher
than 1000 concurrent executions at a time,
you can just open a support ticket
to request a higher limits.
So now that we know about the concept of currency,
here is something that can happen
if we don't set the concurrently very carefully.
So if you don't set any reserve concurrency,
so any limit on your function concurrency,
then this could happen.
So we have our application balancer,
for example, connected to a Lambda function.
We have another application where we have few users
that connect to an API gateway,
connected to another Lambda function,
and one last application may be using the SDK and the CLI
to invoke a Lambda function.
So when everything is pretty low-level,
like low throughput of invocation,
everything is fine.
But let's say that we are running a huge promotion
and somehow we get many, many users hammering
our application load balancers, we're very successful.
So what happens is that our load balancer
will be invoking many, many Lambda functions
and Lambda functions can scale automatically.
So we'll get up to 1000 concurrent executions.
So this looks good, right?
Lambda has scaled.
But here is the problem.
All of the concurrent executions
went to the first application.
So that means that the application users
of our API gateway will be throttled.
And that means that the CLI and SDK will also be throttled.
So what you get to remember out of this slide
is that the concurrency limit applies
to all the functions in your accounts,
and so you have to be careful because
if one function goes over the limit,
it's possible that your other functions get throttled.
So that's very, very important.
Next, let's talk about concurrency
and your asynchronous invocations.
So let's take the example of S3 event notifications.
So we are uploading files into our S3 buckets,
and this creates a new file event
that will invoke our Lambda functions,
and say we are putting many, many files at the same time.
So we get many, many different Lambda
concurrent executions happening.
And if the function doesn't have enough
concurrency available.
So if it cannot scale up because we have reached the limits,
then the additional requests are throttled.
But this is an asynchronous request.
So for any throttling errors and system error,
so 429 and 500-series,
Lambda will return the event to the event queue.
So remember in the asynchronous mode
there is an internal event queue,
and Lambda will attempt to run the function again
for up to six hours.
So there's a lot of retries that happens
due to the throttling and so on.
Then this retry interval will increase
in an exponential bucket fashion.
So from one second to our maximum of every five minutes.
So this allows your Lambda functions to keep on retrying
and hopefully one day find the concurrency
and capacity available to run correctly.
Okay, so next let's talk
about cold starts and provisioned concurrency.
So you may have heard the term before, if you use Lambda.
So cold start, it means that when you create
a new Lambda function instance,
your code has to be loaded and your code outside
of the handler has to be run.
So this corresponds to all your initialization.
So in it.
And if your initialization is large,
because you have a lot of code, a lot of dependencies,
you're connecting to many databases and creating many SDK,
this process can take a lot of time.
So that means that the first request
served by new instances has a higher latency
than the rest and that may impact your users.
So if your user is maybe waiting three seconds
to get a request response,
that may be very, very slow for them
and they may experience a cold start
and may be unhappy with your product.
So what can you do?
Well, you can use something
called a provisioned concurrency.
That means that you allocate concurrency
before the function is even invoked.
So you allocate this concurrency in advance.
This way, the cold start never happens,
and all the invocations will have a lower latency.
And to manage this concurrency, you can...
This provisioned concurrency,
you can use Application Auto Scaling.
For example, for a schedule or target position
to make sure that you have enough reserved Lambda functions
to be ready to be used and minimize this cold start problem.
So please note that whenever before you used
to launch a Lambda function in a VPC
that used to take forever.
So now there was a blog in October and November, 2019
that has been released by AWS.
Here is the link.
And this blog show the improvements they have done
to dramatically reduce the cold starts in your VPC.
So the good news is if you were using Lambda before
the cold starts, really have a minimal impact on your VPC.
Okay, finally, there's two diagrams you can look
in your own time to look at the concept
of reserved concurrency and provisioned concurrency.
And this graphs, I like them.
So here's the link in the slides.
Have a look at them.
They explain to you how they work.
I think they're quite complicated to describe
as is with a slide.
But have a look at them in your own time,
and hopefully they will help you understand
this concept a little bit better
if I didn't help you right now.
Okay, so now let's go into the hands-on
and see how concurrency works.